[comment]: # " File: readme.md"
[comment]: # "  Copyright (c) 2018-2021 Splunk Inc."
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the 'License');"
[comment]: # "you may not use this file except in compliance with the License."
[comment]: # "You may obtain a copy of the License at"
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under"
[comment]: # "the License is distributed on an 'AS IS' BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,"
[comment]: # "either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions"
[comment]: # "and limitations under the License."
[comment]: # ""
## Authentication

This app supports two types of authentication

-   Personal access token
-   Oauth 2.0 authentication

**While creating a team, the user should have set &quotAllow any user with an account on this server
to join this team" under Team Settings to YES to allow the team to be displayed for all users.**

### Personal access token

**<u>*NOTE:*</u>** To use this method user should have been given **&quotAllow this account to
generate personal access tokens"** permission by the system admin.  
To use this method, follow the steps below.

1.  Login to Mattermost server with user credentials in a browser.
2.  In the upper left corner of the window, click on the username, then click **Account Settings** .
3.  Select **Security** and click on **Personal Access Tokens** .
4.  Click on **Create New Token** and provide a description for your token.
5.  A pair of **Token ID** and **Token** would be generated.
6.  Copy the **Token** and save it at someplace safe as you will not be able to see the token again.

Provide the token generated by performing the above steps in the **personal_token** field in asset
configuration. Click save and run test connectivity.

### Oauth 2.0 authentication

**<u>*NOTE:*</u>** To use this method, System Admin should set **Enable OAuth 2.0 Service Provider**
option to &quottrue&quot.  
System Admin should register the app on Mattermost using the steps given below:

1.  Login to the Mattermost server with admin credentials in a browser.
2.  In the upper left corner of the window, click on the username, then click **Integrations** .
3.  Select **OAuth 2.0 Applications** and click on **Add OAuth 2.0 Application** .
4.  Set &quotIs Trusted" to **true** .
5.  Provide any display name to your application and give a description.
6.  Provide any valid URL as the Homepage URL.
7.  For now, provide any valid URL as Callback URL. Phantom redirect URL would be generated after
    creating an asset with the client ID and client secret. We will update that URL here.
8.  Click on Save.
9.  A pair of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** would be generated. Save it somewhere
    securely.

  
While creating the asset for this authentication method, provide Client ID and Client Secret
generated during previous steps in **client_id** and **client_secret** field of asset configuration
and click on Save.  
A new field called **POST incoming for Mattermost to this location** will appear in the **Asset
Settings** tab. Take the URL found in this field and place it in the **Callback URL** field of your
registered app on the Mattermost server. To this URL, add **/result** at the end. After doing so the
URL should look something like:

    https://<phantom_host>/rest/handler/mattermost_b303c16b-8b45-404d-b573-dd5f4b0082e0/<asset_name>/result

Once again, click save.  

## Note

**A new client secret would be generated after updating the Callback URL in Mattermost. Update that
client secret on the asset created on Phantom** .

## Method to run test connectivity

For the Personal token method of authentication, you just need to click the **TEST CONNECTIVITY**
button.  
For the Oauth 2.0 authentication method, click on the **TEST CONNECTIVITY** button, a window will
pop up and display a URL. Navigate to this URL in a separate browser tab. This new tab will redirect
to the Mattermost login page. Log in using your username and password. After logging in, click the
**Authorize** button. Finally, close that tab. The test connectivity window should a show success
message.

## Note

-   All the asset configuration parameters are optional, but you need to provide the configuration
    parameters based on the authentication method you want to use. Otherwise, the actions will
    return an error.
-   Once you run test connectivity using **Oauth 2.0 authentication** method, all the actions other
    than test connectivity will pass for that asset, even if you remove the configuration parameters
    after running test connectivity.
-   If you have provided all the configuration parameters, the priority of the authentication method
    is as follows:
    1.  Personal access token
    2.  Oauth 2.0 access token

## Note

-   If the personal token of the user is revoked by the system admin, the user needs to contact the
    system admin and generate a new token.
-   For Oauth 2.0, the access token is valid up to 30 days/720 hours. After that user will need to
    run test connectivity again for authentication.

## State file permissions

Please check the permissions for the state file as mentioned below.

#### State file path

-   For Non-NRI instance: /opt/phantom/local_data/app_states/\<appid>/\<asset_id>\_state.json
-   For NRI instance:
    /\<PHANTOM_HOME_DIRECTORY>/local_data/app_states/\<appid>/\<asset_id>\_state.json

#### State file permissions

-   File rights: rw-rw-r-- (664) (The phantom user should have read and write access for the state
    file)
-   File owner: Appropriate phantom user
